# Changelog

All notable changes to this project will be documented in this file.

The format is based on [Keep a Changelog](https://keepachangelog.com/en/1.1.0/),
and this project adheres to [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html).

## [Unreleased]
[unreleased]: https://github.com/infolektuell/gradle-jextract/compare/v1.1.0...HEAD

### Breaking

- Upgraded required JRE and Gradle versions for the plugin:
  - Requires Java 21 or higher, was Java 17 before.
  - Requires Gradle 8.5 or above that is compatible with Java 21.
  - This doesn't affect Java toolchains.

## [1.1.0] - 2025-11-04
[1.1.0]: https://github.com/infolektuell/gradle-jextract/compare/v1.0.0...v1.1.0

### Added

- [Jextract 25 binaries](https://jdk.java.net/jextract/) can be used.

### changed

- Migrated example project to pure Java because Kotlin still doesn't support Java 25 compile target.

## [1.0.0] - 2025-10-04
[1.0.0]: https://github.com/infolektuell/gradle-jextract/compare/v1.0.0-beta-2...v1.0.0

### Added

- Added example project with native binaries as resources
- Docs: Added latest release to site title
- Added API docs generated by Dokka

## [1.0.0-beta-2] - 2025-09-28
[1.0.0-beta-2]: https://github.com/infolektuell/gradle-jextract/compare/v1.0.0-beta-1...v1.0.0-beta-2

### Fixed

- Recognizes Windows OS again.

## [1.0.0-beta-1] - 2025-09-28
[1.0.0-beta-1]: https://github.com/infolektuell/gradle-jextract/compare/v0.5.0...v1.0.0-beta-1

### Added

- Managing Jextract installations has moved to a shared build service. Running `clean` doesn't destroy the downloads and installations anymore, because they are no build artefacts or task outputs. This reduces Jextract-related network requests.
- Custom download locations for Jextract distributions can be configured in the DSL extension. Configuring the download task isn't necessary anymore.

### Changed

- The DSL to configure the Java version for the plugin has changed. Builds that let the plugin use the toolchain are not affected.
- The Jextract tasks have been reimplemented without the worker API. If you configure the tasks directly in your build, this version will be a breaking change for you. Please try to configure the plugin via DSL, or migrate to the new tasks.

### Fixed

- Task dependencies are declared properly, so Kotlin and similar tasks run after Jextract.
- Configuration cache doesn't fail anymore with “executable not found” error.

### Removed

- Tasks that make use of the worker API have been removed and replaced with the new implementations.
- Tasks for downloading and extracting Jextract have been removed and replaced with the shared build service.

## [0.5.0] - 2025-05-18
[0.5.0]: https://github.com/infolektuell/gradle-jextract/compare/v0.4.0...v0.5.0

### Changed

- Replace the nested resource property of DownloadTask with a property that receives an instance of the Resource class from a separate business model.
  The values of these resources strictly belong together, so a data class coming from a business model is more appropriate than a bean with separate properties. 
- The plugin adds an extension to each source set where Jextract libraries can be added.
  This breaking API change improves flexibility and stability.

### Added

- Add output properties in DSL extension to customize the output path per library or as a parent folder for all libraries without a specified output path.
  If a library has no explicit output path, its name is used to create a subdirectory under the top-level output path.
  If no explicit top-level output is given, it defaults to a convention in the build directory.
- Add DSL properties to configure Jextract 21 to generate source files instead of class files (per library or top-level).

### Fixed

- Check for the Java toolchain version only if and after the Java plugin is applied.
- Pass the `--use-system-load-library` command line flag only to Jextract 22 or above, fails with Jextract 21 and below.

### Removed

- Remove The sourceSet property in the DSL which is superseded by a source set extension.

## [0.4.0] - 2024-11-08
[0.4.0]: https://github.com/infolektuell/gradle-jextract/compare/v0.3.0...v0.4.0

### Changed

- When Jextract 22 is requested, Build 22-jextract+6-47 will be downloaded from now on.

### Fixed

- Improved configuration cache stability by moving provider creation to task action.

## [0.3.0] - 2024-10-12
[0.3.0]: https://github.com/infolektuell/gradle-jextract/compare/v0.2.1...v0.3.0

### Added

- Create a changelog file for release notes
- The source set the generated sources are added to is now user-selectable via extension property, `main` is chosen by default.
- Tasks became cacheable, so the downloaded Jextract archives and generated sources can be shared and re-used via build cache.

### Changed

- Jextract is downloaded and installed to the project build directory to avoid access conflicts for output files and directories in multi-project builds.

## [0.2.1] - 2024-09-28
[0.2.1]: https://github.com/infolektuell/gradle-jextract/compare/v0.2.0...v0.2.1

### Fixed

- Make DownloadTask compatible with the configuration cache.

## [0.2.0] - 2024-09-27
[0.2.0]: https://github.com/infolektuell/gradle-jextract/compare/v0.1.0...v0.2.0

### Added

- Support argFile configuration as an alternative filtering mechanism to setting included symbols directly in the extension, use `whitelist.argFile` property in the library config.
- Add `DumpIncludes` task to dump includes encountered in a library's headers to a text file in the build directory per convention: `gradlew dumpIncludes`.
  This file can be copied and modified for further usage as argFile.

### Changed

- Parallelize tasks running Jextract for faster multi-lib builds.

### Fixed

- Use Jextract 22 for JVM 23.

### Removed

- Remove the custom download location DSL, but the download task can be configured with custom URLs.
- Remove the separate download plugin and merge download stuff into this plugin.

## [0.1.0] - 2024-09-16
[0.1.0]: https://github.com/infolektuell/gradle-jextract/releases/tag/v0.1.0

### Added

- Tasks to download and install Jextract from the official EA download page
- Task to generate bindings for given headers using Jextract
- DSL extension to configure multiple native libraries and desired Jextract version/installation
